(narrator) Previously on
"The Making of the Mob: Chicago"...
With Al Capone out of the picture...
Frank Nitti, backed by Paul
Ricca and Tony Accardo,
makes his first big move,
shaking down Hollywood with
street thug Willie Bioff.
It's all there.
Always a pleasure.
(narrator) But when Bioff gets busted...
No names, no deal.
Frank Nitti... and, uh, Paul Ricca.
(narrator) ...Nitti is
unwilling to take the fall...
(gunshot)
...and Ricca is put behind bars,
leaving the entire empire in
the hands of Tony Accardo.
Looking to branch out,
Accardo brings in up-and-coming gangster
Sam Giancana...
You ever hear of Eddie Jones?
His racket's pullin'
in over a million a year.
We can get in on it.
I'll think about it.
Uhh!
What the hell are you doin'?
I did what I had to.
Nothin' gets done without my approval!
(narrator) But, knowing the policy
racket could bring in millions,
Accardo gives Giancana a second chance.
I'm giving you something big here.
Don't screw it up.
(chuckles)
♪ ♪
- Synced and corrected by VitoSilans -
-- www.Addic7ed.com --
(traffic noise)
Do yourself a favor.
Start counting.
(narrator) By the mid 1950s,
Chicago mobsters Tony
Accardo and Paul Ricca,
who's recently been
released from prison,
have taken the reigns
of the criminal empire
built by their mentor, Al Capone.
(Robert Grant) Accardo and Paul Ricca
were very, very, very close friends,
and they were willing to
share power, which, you know,
at that level of... Of leadership,
it's very hard to find
people willing to do that.
♪ ♪
(narrator) Thanks to Sam Giancana's
takeover of the policy racket,
the gangsters are now making millions.
But, unlike their former boss,
Accardo and Ricca realize they
have to be more discreet
with their profits.
(Frank Calabrese) The
big change that I seen
and I was taught from the Al Capone days
was the fact we had to go underground.
We had to go far, far underground.
♪ ♪
(narrator) With so much money coming in,
Accardo and Ricca know they
need a place to hide it.
They find their answer in a growing city
located in the middle of
America's Mojave desert,
where gambling is now legal.
Las Vegas, Nevada.
♪ ♪
(Michael Green) In the mid-'50s,
Las Vegas is a boom town.
But the rules haven't been written.
It is, in a sense, a frontier town.
There is room to maneuver.
And Las Vegans are very conscious
that they need industry.
They need business.
(narrator) Accardo and Ricca
see Las Vegas as the holy grail,
offering a way to
invest their illegal profits
into a legitimate business.
But they're not the
first ones with this idea.
The New York Mafia is already there,
led by criminal mastermind Meyer Lansky.
(Meyer Lansky II) My grandfather,
in the early days of Las Vegas,
the first advantage he saw
is, everything was legal here
that they were doing illegal.
There was nothing to hide.
And, uh, he saw it as
a money opportunity.
(narrator) The New York
Mob runs the Flamingo,
a luxury hotel and
casino founded by Bugsy Siegel,
which is bringing in the
modern-day equivalent
of $50 million a year.
♪ ♪
And now, the Chicago Mafia wants in.
If we do this right...
millions.
I like the sound of that.
We just have to be smart about it.
Do you trust this Lansky guy?
He'll understand.
And if he doesn't...
we can do it your way.
♪ ♪
(Michael) In a lot of
ways, the Chicago Outfit
is as powerful as New York,
and it may be more powerful.
("Ricca") Meyer.
Paul.
(Michael) When Luciano
forms the commission,
he's got the five families of New York.
He's got the Buffalo Mob.
Well, the Chicago Outfit is
representing, basically,
everything else.
So they're taking in so much territory
and so much action that
they have a big say.
So... what can we do for you?
We know Vegas has been good for you.
We just want to make sure Chicago
gets a piece of the action.
(scoffs)
So you're, uh...
looking to muscle in on our rackets,
and you're telling us... Why?
As a courtesy?
No.
We're telling you because...
we wanna go in on this together.
We have enough partners.
None with access to our kind of cash.
Look...
gentlemen, it wasn't
easy getting set up out here.
(lighter flicking)
Took a lot of time...
and a lot of effort.
We understand that.
Which is why we wanna work together.
We put money into your
casinos and cut you in on ours.
Between your
connections and our finances,
this'll be good for all of us.
There's been a longstanding peace
between New York and Chicago.
Who am I to challenge it?
To peace.
And money.
(glasses clinking)
(narrator) With a partnership formed,
the two criminal
organizations set up a system
to take full advantage of Las Vegas.
♪ ♪
First, to pay for the
construction of new casinos,
they secure legitimate
loans from local banks
who don't ask a lot of questions.
Then, when the
casinos are up and running,
the mobsters use their legal
profits to pay off the loans.
And finally, they begin funneling
their illegal money
through the casinos.
(Michael) Las Vegas became
a money laundering capital,
and the Outfit, uh, took
full advantage of the opportunity.
Gambling was a cash business.
So who notices if you suddenly say,
"Oh, here's a dollar going
here, and we'll move it over here."
(birds tweeting)
(narrator) As the operation grows,
Accardo and Ricca know they
need someone on the ground,
so Ricca suggests his
protégé, Sam Giancana.
I'm just not sure about him.
He's proved himself with
the policy wheel, no?
He's made money.
I've had to keep him on a short leash.
How am I supposed to do
that when he's 2,000 miles away?
Just give him a chance. He's earned it.
Besides...
at least he'll be 2,000 miles away.
(chuckles softly)
You have a point.
♪ ♪
(narrator) Despite his
personal reservations,
Accardo knows Giancana's
success in the Chicago policy rackets
makes him the perfect
choice to run the Vegas operation.
Yes!
(crowd cheering)
Once again!
(Michael) Giancana and Las Vegas
go together very well.
He was the kind of guy who
likes to hang out in casinos.
He likes to be around
the good-looking women
and the action.
(narrator) Under Giancana's leadership,
the Outfit's presence in Vegas explodes
as gangsters from Chicago move west.
(Meyer) Chicago Outfit became
very dominant here in Las Vegas.
Quite a few people from
their Outfit planted here.
Pit bosses, dealers, all kinds of,
you know, on-the-ground, working
people, you might say.
♪ ♪
What are we working with here?
(narrator) But one mobster
who's just arrived in Vegas
catches Giancana's attention.
The man who broke the
Mob's code of silence,
sending Giancana's mentor to jail.
♪ ♪
And now, Giancana wants revenge.
Well done.
Thanks.
Congratulations.
(narrator) While making
his rounds in Vegas,
Chicago gangster Sam Giancana
spots a man from the Outfit's past.
Willie Bioff, the
same man who ratted out
Paul Ricca and Frank
Nitti ten years ago,
and then disappeared.
Willie Bioff does something
that guys in the
Outfit don't traditionally do.
He rolls.
He testifies.
And, under his assumed name,
moves to Arizona,
but can't stand to be out of the action.
He comes up to Las Vegas.
And that exposes him to organized crime.
♪ ♪
(phone ringing)
Hello.
Yeah, he's here.
Yeah.
Bioff?
Yeah... with my own eyes.
Of all the places in the world,
he chooses our casinos
like nobody's watchin'.
That prick needs to
be taken care of now.
- Do you understand me?
- Yeah.
I'll take care of it.
♪ ♪
1,319 days.
That's how long I went without
seein' my family.
Because that prick couldn't
keep his mouth shut.
Paul... it's done.
♪ ♪
(keys jangle)
(car stalls)
(car stalling)
(engine starts)
♪ ♪
(narrator) On November 4, 1955,
Willie Bioff is killed by a car bomb,
the ultimate payback for ratting
out his former partners.
(Meyer) Tony Accardo and Paul Ricca,
they were absolutely ruthless.
They had both sides of
that ability needed
for that type of a lifestyle.
You had to be able to inflict
violence at some times,
and you also have to be
able to use your logic.
Now, basically, when they walk through,
they're gonna be greeted immediately
by lots of slot machines.
("Ricca") This grand
ballroom will be the biggest
grand ballrooms in any casino in Vegas.
♪ ♪
(narrator) Over the next two years,
Chicago and New York launch an
ambitious expansion of Vegas,
transforming four miles of Nevada desert
into what will come to be
known as the Las Vegas Strip...
♪ ♪
...attracting nearly eight
million people a year,
who pump over $200
million into the casinos.
♪ ♪
This is a beautiful ledger sheet.
I want to frame it and
put it on my wall.
(all chuckling)
And it's just the beginning.
To the future, gentlemen.
To the future.
♪ ♪
(narrator) But Accardo
and Giancana see Vegas
as more than a destination for gambling.
♪ ♪
The magic that really made it take off
was combining the casinos
with entertainment from famous stars
like Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin.
♪ ♪
(narrator) Soon, the
allure of the Vegas strip
begins attracting Hollywood's
biggest stars.
And Sam Giancana takes advantage
of all that the social
scene has to offer.
(David Eisenbach) Sam
Giancana is a guy who
liked to hang out with celebrities
like Frank Sinatra.
Uh, he was a guy who liked to kind of
rub shoulders with
celebrities and with the powers that be.
♪ ♪
(Frank Cullotta) The way Sam
was treated anywhere he went,
they knew who he
was, and he was admired.
If a movie star came
in the door with him,
they would go to him before they
would go to the movie star.
♪ ♪
(narrator) As the money pours in,
the Outfit comes up with
a way to make even more.
It's known as the skim.
(Meyer) The skim is money
that's taken off the tables
before it can be recorded in a book
or anything to do with being taxed.
How it worked depended on the place.
They rigged slot machines.
They rigged the scales.
You get in the counting room,
and the money starts disappearing.
♪ ♪
Very nice.
(William Forsythe) Once it went into
Vegas, they were bigger than anyone.
You know, they were as
big as the oil business.
♪ ♪
(traffic noise)
(door creaks)
(narrator) But just as the Outfit's
Vegas operations are taking off,
an incident over 2,500
miles away in New York City
threatens to destroy everything
the Mob has built.
(echoing heartbeat)
(narrator) On May 2, 1957,
New York Mob boss Frank
Costello is shot.
But, miraculously, he survives.
As the gangster recovers,
the police make an unexpected discovery.
(Meyer) The police
found a piece of paper
that suggested that there was money
coming out of the
Tropicana in Las Vegas.
There was skimming going
on in the Tropicana Hotel.
(narrator) News of the cops'
discovery spreads quickly,
exposing the Mafia's ties to Las Vegas.
This proved that an
organized crime figure
was involved with the casinos.
This was very embarrassing
for the local banks,
who were lending money to these people.
So, after that piece of paper was found,
the local banks were
not going to lend money
to buy and build and expand casinos.
♪ ♪
How are we supposed to
cover construction costs
if we can't get a single loan?
Not one. No bank'll go near us.
The banks will come around.
When?
Soon... trust me.
Until then...
we just need to wait this
out until it resolves itself.
We can't afford to wait.
If we can't get the money from the bank,
we need to get it from somewhere else.
♪ ♪
(narrator) To secure
the financing they need,
Tony Accardo turns to
a source closer to home.
I pledge to do
everything in my power to ensure...
(narrator) A high-ranking officer
in the country's largest labor union,
the Teamsters...
(applause)
Jimmy Hoffa.
I take a look around this
room and I can see a working man.
Many working men!
(cheering and applause)
Nothing is more important to
me than our financial security.
Nothing!
(cheering)
(narrator) Thanks to
the Outfit's influence,
Hoffa is now the
president of the Teamsters union,
and Accardo wants to call in a favor.
That pension fund you started up.
How much interest are
you charging on loans?
About eight percent.
But, for you, I could
get it down to six.
Let's make it three.
Three percent?
Jimmy Hoffa was put in place
and voted in from the Chicago Outfit.
So, once he was in office,
for that favor, they needed loans.
Three percent?
Is that a problem?
No!
No problem.
Whatever you need.
♪ ♪
(Hillel) The Outfit took
hundreds of millions of dollars
from the Teamsters' pension funds,
which, in essence, was
Accardo's piggybank.
And that money is really what financed
the growth of Las Vegas.
(narrator) But as the Outfit's
empire continues to grow,
Accardo and co-boss Paul Ricca
know they risk attracting
more attention.
(Michael Madsen) Tony Accardo, he
wasn't interested in being flashy
and being noticed,
because then those... Those kind of guys
were always the ones who went to prison.
(narrator) To insulate themselves,
the two Mob kingpins make
an unprecedented move
by naming a new acting boss,
a gangster who's made
millions for the Outfit
and relishes the spotlight.
Sam Giancana.
You got big things comin', kid.
And that's why we're talkin' to you.
(flicks cigarette)
We need somebody to run things.
And you want that person to be me?
Yes.
But we need assurances you're
gonna stay in line.
I will.
(John Kass) Ricca and Accardo,
their mentality was, no heat.
No Valentine's massacre... none of that.
So put a man named
Sam Giancana in charge,
and they... They just sat quietly.
And they dictated what happened
and recede even
further in the background.
Thank you.
If you blow this for us...
I know the consequences, Joe.
Good.
♪ ♪
(narrator) In one move,
Accardo and Ricca further
distance themselves
from the public eye
but retain the final
say in all big decisions.
♪ ♪
For Giancana, taking
day-to-day control of the Outfit
is a lifelong dream.
(Frank Cullotta) Sam Giancana
was, of course, power crazy.
He grew up the hard
way. You know what I mean?
In other words, he stole and
he robbed and all that,
and then he became a big boss.
(narrator) But what he doesn't realize
is that he's about to become the target
of an ambitious young attorney
who he sees an opportunity
to make a name for himself
by going after organized crime.
Robert F. Kennedy.
We need to get these guys tracked down.
(man) Yes, sir.
This is no joke, gentlemen.
So if there's more resources
that you need,
you come to me... You let me know.
♪ ♪
(narrator) After successfully managing
his older brother John's
election to the US senate,
Robert F. Kennedy,
the seventh of nine children
born to a growing political dynasty,
is ready to make a name for himself.
♪ ♪
(David) I don't think Bobby
was bred to be a politician.
The older brothers were the
future, uh, politicians.
Bobby was the one who ran the campaigns.
Bobby was the one who
kept everybody in line.
And Bobby embraced that role.
♪ ♪
What rate of interest did
you charge on that loan?
(man) I don't remember.
(narrator) To further his career,
Kennedy takes a position
as the lead investigative
counsel to the US Senate,
where he goes on a crusade
against corrupt labor unions,
targeting leaders like Jimmy Hoffa.
Mr. Hoffa,
you have people in Detroit,
at least 15, who have police records.
One of those has 38 arrests
and is a known associate of
Joe Accardo and Paul Ricca,
two of Chicago's leading gangsters.
(narrator) During the investigation,
Kennedy uncovers a link
between Hoffa and organized crime.
Realizing that the
corruption runs much deeper
than the labor unions,
Kennedy decides to
use the power of his panel
to investigate the Mob.
(David) Kennedy, who's looking
to make a name for himself,
is gonna see, "Wait a second.
Here's an opportunity," right,
"to... to use my righteous anger,"
the black-and-white view of
the world, good versus evil,
for his own political purposes.
(narrator) One of the first men
that Kennedy wants to
call to the stand...
is the Outfit's day-to-day
boss, Sam Giancana.
♪ ♪
("Giancana") I feel like we
just pile up our money here!
Again, again!
♪ ♪
(narrator) But when Giancana gets word
that he's going to be subpoenaed,
he does the unexpected and skips town.
♪ ♪
What?!
Sounds good to me.
Giancana played a lot of games,
and among the games he
played was avoiding service
for the subpoena that would bring him
before the McClellan committee.
♪ ♪
(narrator) For almost a year,
Giancana stays one
step ahead of the feds
by hiding out in different cities
and using a number of aliases.
He was put in as the
operating boss of the Outfit,
to mind the store,
a multibillion-dollar enterprise.
He's not minding the stores.
♪ ♪
(big band music playing)
Why, hello there.
You enjoying yourself?
The goal is to bet as
high as you possibly can.
♪ ♪
♪ Let's have a moment ♪
Sam Giancana?
Yeah?
You're a hard man to find.
You've been served.
♪ I haven't told you this won't take... ♪
It's about time!
♪ ♪
♪ Maybe you're right ♪
(narrator) Despite knowing
his bosses would disapprove,
Giancana refuses to keep a low profile.
So... what do you
intend to say to the committee?
Well, I would like to
tell 'em to go to hell.
(giggling)
They couldn't catch me for a year.
(whispering) That's very funny.
So what do you think of Bobby Kennedy?
I think Robert Kennedy has
no idea what he's in for.
A number-one rule for any mobster
is you don't want to be in the press.
Where haven't I been...
(David) It's... it's just bringing on
way too much attention
that the syndicate did not want.
Anything he should be worried about?
Guess we'll have to
wait and see, won't we?
(giggling)
♪ ♪
♪ When I am down ♪
(record crackling)
♪ And feel uninspired ♪
♪ ♪
♪ If I fall ♪
♪ I know I'll be fine ♪
♪ ♪
♪ That's why I'm here ♪
Take a walk.
♪ ♪
♪ To say I love you ♪
Now!
♪ ♪
♪ I'm so glad ♪
(sighs)
♪ You're mine ♪
♪ ♪
Damn it!
(grunts)
You're givin' interviews
to the "Tribune" now?
Relax, I didn't say
anything I wasn't supposed to.
Shut up! I know what I'm doing...
Shut... up!
(lighter flicks)
When you go in front of the committee,
you're gonna take the
fifth, every... single... time.
You got it?
Yeah.
I got it.
(Robert Lombardo) Accardo
never talked to the press.
And it was frowned
upon, talking to the press.
Why expose yourself? Why
expose what you're doing?
And I think they learned
a lesson from Capone,
because Capone, um, was more than
happy to talk to the press.
Clean yourself up.
You're a mess.
Prick.
♪ ♪
(narrator) On June 9, 1959...
Sam Giancana, the acting boss
of the country's largest
criminal syndicate,
arrives in Washington D.C.,
ready to go head-to-head
with one of the most feared
interrogators in the country.
(narrator) After evading
federal agents for a year,
Sam Giancana is about to testify
in front of a congressional committee
and come face to face
with the man determined
to take down organized crime,
Robert F. Kennedy.
We ultimately
subpoenaed him in Las Vegas.
That is correct.
Following that Las Vegas visit,
he returned to Chicago, where
he gave an interview
to a reporter from the
"Chicago Tribune."
("Kennedy") You may relate what
his opinion of the committee was.
("Salinger") Ahem. He says,
referring to the committee,
"I would like to tell
them to all go to hell."
Is that correct?
I decline to answer because
I honestly believe
my answer might tend to incriminate me.
He also says, "They
couldn't catch me for a year.
I like to hide."
Is that correct, Mr. Giancana?
I decline to answer because
I honestly believe
my answer might tend to incriminate me.
He was also quoted,
when asked why he hadn't
served in any armed forces
during World War II, as stating,
"When I was called in front of the board,
they asked me what kind of work I did.
I told them I steal for a living.
They thought I was crazy."
"But I wasn't. I was telling the truth."
(laughing)
("Kennedy") The authorities in Chicago
consider Mr. Giancana to
be the number-two man
in the syndicate in the city.
He and Mr. Tony Accardo,
number one and number two.
Is that correct, Mr. Giancana?
(whispering indistinctly)
Mr. Giancana?
I decline to answer because
I honestly believe
my answer might tend to incriminate me.
♪ ♪
Would you tell us, if you had
opposition from anybody,
that you have them dealt
with by stuffing them in a trunk?
Is that what you do, Mr. Giancana?
(chuckling) I decline to answer
'cause I honestly believe
my answer might tend to...
Would you tell us anything
about any of your operations,
or are you just gonna giggle
every time I ask you a question?!
I thought only little
girls giggled, Mr. Giancana.
(Frank Cullotta) When these
guys, like Bobby Kennedy,
and they got you in the crosshairs
and they're questioning you,
like these committees they got...
Would you tell us anything about
any of your operations?
(Frank Cullotta) ...and
they're gettin' cocky wit' ya,
and you're just wishin' you
could come out of that chair
and rip that son of a
bitch right off that pedestal
that he's sittin' on over there.
♪ ♪
I decline to answer because
I honestly believe
my answer might tend to incriminate me!
(gavel pounds)
(Chairman) Is there anything further?
(scoffs)
You may stand aside,
subject to being recalled.
Every battle that Bobby
Kennedy took up became personal.
Everything was war for Bobby Kennedy.
But Sam Giancana probably
looked at Bobby Kennedy
as just that, a rich, snot-nosed kid
whose dad's fortune was made illegally.
♪ ♪
(lighter flicks)
Are you stupid?
It's a publicity stunt.
All Kennedy cares about is
gettin' his name in the papers.
And how exactly
does laughin' in his face
help things?
It was funny.
Don't you ever think?
You're on very thin ice.
And you're blowing this whole thing
out of proportion.
Get out of here.
Now.
(Frank Calabrese) Giancana
was too vocal,
too out in the open.
He wasn't underground enough.
And I think it all went
to his head after a while.
(narrator) To Tony Accardo,
Sam Giancana has become a liability...
who now risks bringing the
whole Chicago Mob down.
(narrator) As Sam Giancana's
outrageous behavior
becomes more of a
problem for the Outfit...
I got it. Don't worry.
(narrator) ...co-boss Paul Ricca
knows he needs to rein his protégé in.
Listen... this
business with you and Accardo...
He's got a problem with me.
I am living the life
you and I dreamed of.
- Listen. Listen.
- And he's got a problem with that.
Does he even know realize how
much money I'm bringin' in?
- What's it gonna take to get respect?
- Listen, I don't...
- I am runnin' the casinos.
- Listen...
I am runnin' the policy...
Listen!
We got a good thing going on here.
- We do.
- And the only way
that I'm gonna be
able to keep it like that
is if you stay in line.
Let me take care of Accardo, all right?
Go back to doin' what you do best.
Make money.
I don't wanna see no
more problems, okay?
(exhales)
Of course.
♪ ♪
(narrator) But in the midst of
Accardo and Giancana's growing feud,
Paul Ricca is convicted of tax evasion
and once again sent to prison.
It's another blow to the Outfit,
but the government is
just getting started.
♪ ♪
Who does that son of
a bitch think he is?
This is the man that's
ordered the murder of dozens,
maybe hundreds of men.
(scoffs) And he just sits there,
laughing, like it's some kind of a joke.
Kennedy was willing to go after the Mob,
uh, by any means
necessary, to use a phrase.
With Bobby Kennedy,
everything seemed to be personal.
What do you wanna do?
I wanna hit 'em where it hurts most!
The casinos.
Get me the Nevada Gaming Commission.
♪ ♪
(crowd chattering)
(chips clinking)
Very nice.
Mr. Giancana...
could you please come with us?
What's this about?
Please.
I'm not goin' anywhere.
Kindly escort Mr. Giancana
off the floor.
Get your hands off me.
I'm... Get your hands off of me!
(grunting)
♪ ♪
(narrator) After Sam
Giancana makes a mockery
of Robert F. Kennedy's hearings,
the Nevada Gaming Control Board
puts his name on a list of criminals
who are barred from entering casinos.
♪ ♪
("Accardo") How the hell are
you going to run things in Vegas
when you can't even step
foot inside a casino?
It's temporary, okay?
I already spoke to our lawyers.
They said there's a good chance
I can get my name off that list
if I take it to court.
Take it to court?
Have you lost your mind?
What do you suggest I do
then? Do you have any idea
of the kind of press that will bring?
What am I supposed to do?
You fix it.
I just told you how to fix it.
Find another way.
Otherwise...
I'm gonna have to make some changes.
(laughing)
Okay.
Good luck with that.
♪ ♪
(David) It's one thing to be
a well-known gangster
and to be hanging
out with Frank Sinatra.
But now to be seen, you know,
as this criminal,
definitely makes life more difficult
because it makes it harder
to buy off the politicians,
it makes it harder to buy off the cops.
Makes it harder to
basically run an operation
if you have the... The
media glare like this.
♪ ♪
Everyone's replaceable.
Everyone!
(narrator) With Accardo and
Giancana's relationship deteriorating,
and Paul Ricca in prison,
the Chicago Outfit
is on the verge of a total collapse.
♪ ♪
- Synced and corrected by VitoSilans -
-- www.Addic7ed.com --